- The best measure of wealth is what you have minus what you want. (By this measure, some billionaires are broke.) #quote
- The most valuable personal finance asset is not needing to impress anyone. #finance #quote
- “People like you more when you are working towards something, not when you have it.” - Drake #quote #best-quotes
- There are two types of people: Those who want to know more and those who want to defend what they already know. #quote
- Most beliefs are self-validating. Angry people look for problems and find them everywhere, happy people seek out smiles and find them everywhere, pessimists look for trouble and find it everywhere. Brains are good at filtering inputs to focus on what you want to believe. #quote
- Everyone wants to be lucky and to be admired, but no one admires a person for their luck. #quote
- Many people check their portfolios every day but their blood pressure every few years, if even that. #quote #finance #health
- You are twice as gullible as you think you are – four times if you disagree with that statement. #quote
- “Men resist randomness, markets resist prophecy.” - Maggie Mahar #quote #finance
- People tend to be obsessed with harm posed by others (terrorism, crime) while oblivious to much greater self-inflicted harms (poor diet, no exercise). #health
- We underestimate the importance of control. Camping is fun, even when you’re cold. Being homeless is miserable, even when you’re warm.
- There is an “ideal” net worth for everyone, when money not only stops bringing pleasure but becomes a social liability.
- Good marketing wins in the short run and good products win in the long run.
- Three legal investment strategies: Be smarter than others, be luckier than others, be more patient than others. That’s the whole list. #finance
- Schools are good at measuring intelligence but not great at measuring passion, endurance, and character, which tend to be more important than intelligence in the long run. #quote
-