- {{video https://youtu.be/nzQWYHHqvIw}}
	- {{youtube-timestamp 5}} It might sound too philosophical, but it's an unacting acting or acting unacting... if you... You've lost me! I have huh? So what l'm saying, actually, you see, it's a combination of both. I mean here is the natural instinct and here is control. You are to combine the two in harmony. Not...if you have one to the extreme, you'll be very unscientific. If you have another to the extreme, you become, all of a sudden, a mechanical man... no longer a human being.  So it is a successful combination of both, so therefore, it's not pure naturalness, or unnaturalness. The ideal is unnatural naturalness, or natural unnaturalness. Ying & Yang eh? You're right man, that's it. But, if you do not have styles, if you just say, "here l am as a human being, how can l express myself totally and completely?" ...now that way, you won't create a style because style is a crystallization. That way is a process of continuing growth.
	- {{youtube-timestamp 80}} I mean, hand-wise, it's very slow and you push it out but all the time you are keeping the continuity going bending, stretching, everything. You just keep it moving. It looks like a ballet dancer there... It is. I mean to them the idea is "running water never grow stale". So you've got to just "keep on flowing". It's interesting, we don't in our world, and haven't since the days of the Greeks who did, combined philosophy and art with sport. But quite clearly the oriental attitude is that the three are facets of the same things. Man, listen. You see, really, ... To me, ultimately, martial art means honestly expressing yourself. Now, it is very difficult to do. I mean it is easy for me to put on a show and be cocky  and be flooded with a cocky feeling and then feel, like pretty cool and all that. Or l can make all kinds of phony things, you see what l mean? And be blinded by it. Or l can show you some really fancy movement,
	- {{youtube-timestamp 152}} but, to express oneself honestly, not lying to oneself...  and to express myself honestly, that, my friend, is very hard to do. And you have to train. You have to keep your reflexes so that when you want it... it's there! When you want to move, you are moving and when you move you are determined to move.   Not taking one inch, not anything less than that! If l want to punch, l'm going to do it man, and l'm going to do it! So that is the type of thing you gave to train yourself into it to become one with... You think....   ....it is. "empty your mind, be formless, shapeless, like water. Now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup. You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle. You put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot. Now water can flow, or it can crash... Be water, my friend"...